# WGU_C868_Capstone
This is an Android Mobile Application created for WGU C868 Capstone Class.
The mock business problem and solution is detailed below:

Business Problem
The Customer
The customer is Southern Senators College (SSC), a small local privately-owned college located in Southern Illinois. Its mission is to provide good quality higher education learning for local students. SSC has approximately 100 employees. Only 15% of the employees work in the administrative offices of SSC. There is an average total of 200 students enrolling every term. During recent years, they have shown an increase of student enrollment by up to 30% every term. For many years, SSC had their students retrieve a hard copy printout of their academic plan and schedule from the Registrar’s office upon enrollment. Due to the increase in student enrollment, the Registrar’s office has been struggling to keep up with manually creating an academic plan/schedule for enrolling students using an Excel spreadsheet. The manual outdated system has also caused students to miss important start and end dates of their academic plan. The current system is outdated.  SSC’s short-term goal is to upgrade this system utilizing current technology and produce the end product before the beginning of the next term. Their long-term goal is to slowly build this software product to later produce additional requirements for SSC’s daily operation.
Business Case
Student Tracker, an Android mobile application, is the proposed solution to SSC Registrar’s Office's ongoing dilemma. Student Tracker is a mobile app using the Android operating system where SSC’s staff and its students create an academic plan. The Student Tracker can manage the student’s academic plan by automatically tracking start and end dates of terms, courses, and assessments created by the user. The app creates notifications for the users to remind them of start and end dates. This will eliminate the problem where students are missing important academic dates. In the app, users can also add terms, add courses, and add assessments and other details associated with each one. All details will be saved in a database. This will reduce errors that were occurring with the manual system using Excel spreadsheets. The development of Student Tracker will eliminate the need for SSC’s Registrar’s office to print out a hard copy schedule for each enrolling student entirely.
Fulfillment
Student Tracker is an Android mobile application that will be developed for use by Southern Senator’s College (SSC). The app will be available for all enrolled SSC students. To ensure that a student’s data is only accessed by the student, the app will have a log-in page where students can enter their username and password. There will be three main sections to enable students to manage their academic plans effectively.
The first section will allow students to add new terms and update existing term details. Students will be able to add/update terms, assign term names, and create start and end dates for the term created. They will also be able to delete terms. In this section, students can also access a generated report where they can see a list of active created terms and the date and time when the terms were added.
The second section will allow students to add new courses and update existing course details. Students will be able to include the course name, start and end dates, course status, instructor name, phone, email, and course notes. Students can choose to set an alarm here so they will be notified of start and end dates, so they don’t miss these important dates. They can also choose to share notes that they added about the course via text messaging or email.
The third section will allow students to add new performance or objective types of assessments and update assessment details that are related to a course they previously added. Students will be able to include assessment names, start and end dates. They can also choose to set mobile notifications to go off and remind them of start and end dates for their assessments.
The mobile applications will utilize an industry-standard database which will enable SSC to scale the app in the future and other future integrations.
Existing Gaps
The existing system is a manual entry system that utilizes an Excel spreadsheet. The SSC Registrar’s office employees manually enter students’ academic plans into the spreadsheet and print it out. The employees then hand out the hard copy print for the students to keep throughout the school year. This results in errors created by manual input and students losing this hard copy print then missing important academic dates. The employees of this office are overwhelmed due to the increase in the number of student enrollment and the number of manual entry revisions they must make.
The current system is a manual outdated system that causes unnecessary strain on SSC’s registration office employees. It also creates hassle and unnecessary errors for SSC’s students. The system is also time-consuming for both the employees and the students. Whenever a student misses important dates, this hinders their ability to be effective and complete their education promptly. Providing exemptions or make-up time for students also strains the faculty members of SSC as this is a common occurrence for students. The Registrar’s office must constantly revise individual spreadsheets. The result is that SSC’s human resources are wasted due to the errors created by the current manual system.
Evidently, SSC will benefit from the development of Student Tracker. The Android mobile app will provide automated tracking for students’ academic plans and avoid unnecessary errors and hassles for both employees and students which will save SSC a lot of valuable resources. The Student Tracker is a user-friendly Android mobile application that saves data to a database where users can add, update, and delete the following: terms, courses, and assessments.
SDLC Methodology
The Waterfall method was chosen as the SDLC methodology to build the Student Tracker mobile application in Android. The requirements for the Student Tracker are well understood. SSC knows exactly what is needed for the application.  SSC has clearly laid out all that is expected of the app. The Student Tracker is also small and will be developed in a relatively short amount of time. The whole project is relatively short so the Waterfall method will be most beneficial in building the app. This methodology is predictable which is suitable for this small project. The Waterfall methodology is divided into the following phases:
During the requirement phase, all expected features and functionality that SSC requires to be included with the Student Tracker will be laid out and discussed in detail. This is the stage where final requirements will be specified to the development team, so all the requirements are clear. At the end of this stage, the development team will fashion a requirements document that will be provided to all stakeholders.
The next stage is the system design phase where requirements specified from the previous phase are studied thoroughly. The development team will create the system design based on the requirements specified prior. The development team will also document the created design for this mobile app. There will be no coding involved at this stage. The outcome for this stage is the design documents.
The next stage is the implementation phase. This stage is where coding begins.  In this phase, the development team will divide the system design into smaller units. These smaller units will be developed and tested within this stage independently. This allows the team to manage the project efficiently by dividing the whole project into smaller chunks and focusing on the features and functionality required within the smaller chunks. There will be no overlap with the other units. Units will be integrated for the next phase. The outcomes of this stage are unit and unit test cases and their results.
After implementation is the integration and testing phase. The goal in this stage is to find bugs and any deviance from the agreed requirements. In this stage, the team will integrate the smaller units that were previously divided.  The team will rigorously test the application upon integration. Anomalies will be reported and tracked. Features and functionalities that do not pass the testing will be reviewed and fixed by the development team. The deliverables for this stage are test cases, test results, and reports of any found issues.
Following integration and testing is the deployment phase. In this stage, the application would be deployed and ready for use by the customer. This is where the customer will interact with the mobile app developed. The deliverable for this stage is the final mobile application with requirements met with the user guide document.
The final stage is the maintenance phase. In this stage, the user interacts with the app and notifies the development team of any anomalies or bugs that are discovered if any. The development team will review the reports from the customer, investigate and fix the issues. The development team can make updates as requested by SSC, scale the application, and or security patches that are needed by the application.
Deliverables
Deliverables are output or results within each stage of the Waterfall method. As specified previously in the SDLC Methodology section, each phase produces an expected result to help measure the project’s progress as well. These deliverables are divided further divided here into project and product deliverables and are listed below. The project deliverables are primarily under the responsibility of the Project Manager. On the other hand, the product deliverables are produced and delivered to the Southern Senators College (SSC).
Project Deliverables
•	Requirements Document
o	This document will clearly outline specific features and functionality that the customer needs to be included in the application.
o	The requirements must be detailed, clear, and easy to understand by the development team to avoid any confusion as this will set the expected overall outcome of the software development project.
•	Project Schedule
o	This document is a detailed timeline that lists each step including smaller tasks for the project development.
o	The project schedule will also include the expected deliverables for each step. These will be set as milestones to help monitor the project’s progress.
•	Test Plans
o	This document will include the unit test, integration, system, and acceptance tests.
o	This is a document that is based on testing that is completed by the Quality Assurance team.
o	This document will be used as a reference for all testing that has been completed.
o	The test plan will include the requirements and functionalities that will be tested including who will do the testing.
Product Deliverables 
•	Wireframes
o	The wireframes will be representing the design of the application. Low fidelity wireframes should be treated similarly to a prototype. A low-fidelity wireframe is only a shell design that maps out the basic screen interface. 
•	Mockups/Layout
o	Mockups are high-fidelity wireframes that are very similar to a finished software UI. The contents in them are a more precise visual representation of the end product.
•	User guide document
o	The user guide document will contain specific instructions on how to install, deploy and use the finished software product. This will also include environment specifications, setup, and other helpful information for the user.
Implementation
The implementation of the Student Tracker Android mobile application project development is expected to not cause any major disruptions to SSC’s daily operations. Due to the Waterfall method being chosen by the development team, selected SSC registration office staff and SSC stakeholders are only required to interact with the development on the initial and final stages of the entire project. The leadership team at SSC is to provide clear and specific requirements to the development team. Afterward, requirement documents are to be fashioned by the team and provided to SSC to review and finalize. The development team will also provide wireframes at this stage. SSC will be required to sign off on the requirement document, project design including wireframes, and project schedule.
During the testing phase, SSC will provide selected employees to be trained on how to use the mobile application. These selected employees will also be needed for the user acceptance test to be completed.   The employees from SSC will be responsible for the Student Tracker proper use training for SSC’s new students in the future.
The Student Tracker Android mobile application will be deployed by having selected SSC employees to download the app to their Android devices. SSC registration office employees will provide the download instructions to their future new students.
Validation and Verification
Our team will create a test plan to ensure that the Student Tracker meets SSC requirements. Throughout the project development, the software will be tested by our QA team rigorously.
Our engineering team will create unit tests during the implementation phase of the project. Each unit of the project will be thoroughly tested to verify that requirements are satisfied and there is no deviation from the expected outcome of each one.
Upon combining these smaller units of the project, our QA team will do the integrations testing. The individual units are integrated together and are tested as a group. If any bugs are discovered, they will be reported to the engineering department. The engineering department will then review and fix the bug.
Towards the final phase of the project, selected SSC employees will be required to perform the acceptance test. The purpose of this test is to verify that the Student Tracker is compliant with SSC specified requirements based on the user’s experience of utilizing the software. This will determine if the final product is acceptable to SSC.

